>> Nina: There's one more place where it
git stores code, that's through git stash.
The git stash is a way to
save uncommitted work.
The stash is pretty safe from
most disruptive git operations,
and it's handy for so many things.
For example, switching between branches
while you're in the middle of work.
If you're using operations
that can delete or
overwrite your changes like git reset or
git checkout,
that might also be a good
time to stage your changes.
And I'm gonna talk about further
destructive operations later in the class.
So, we'll really deep
dive into that section.
Now, git stash, basic usage.
I'm sure that you're
familiar with the first two,
git stash, stash and git stash list,
show what's in your stash.
Now, when you git stash list,
you will see a bunch of
references that kind of look like this,
stash@.
You can actually refer
to that as a reference.
So, if I wanted to show
the contents of my stash,
I could do git stash
show with that reference.
If I wanted to apply my last stash,
git stash apply,
but I can also apply any stash,
not just the last one by using
that reference.
>> Nina: It's
really useful when you are working with
a stash older than just the last one.
Now, this is a feature
that is really great.
By default, git only stashes changes and
files that are already tracked.
That means that files that are either in
the repository or in the staging area.
I kind of find this really inconvenient
cuz I may have made some new files,
I don't want to git add them just yet,
I need to switch to a new
branch to a bug fix.
So I git stash, and the new file that
I created is still in my working area,
it's not associated with the stash.
I come back to my work,
I might have moved it.
I might have accidentally committed
that file to my critical bug fix,
my working area is dirty.
So, I find that really inconvenient.
You can include untracked
files with stashed content,
by using the --include-untracked flag.
So, git stash --include-untracked.
The next command used with caution,
it'll stash all your files,
even files present in your git ignore.
So, if you're ignoring large binary
files or something like that,
git stash --all will grab them all.
>> Speaker 2: So
then say you applied a stash
that had untracked files in it.
Once you applied it,
are they still untracked,
they're just back?
>> Nina: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Nina: They're still untracked.
Yeah, this is one of my most useful,
most used commands, and
for some reason I find that
not a lot of people know about
it.
>> Nina: Now,
some more advanced stashing operations.
You can name your stash for
easy references,
if you just git stash it usually,
all right,
just takes the I think
the message of the last commit.
It's not relevant it's not useful
when you go back to apply your stash
you're like what is this even?
So, you can name your stashes for
easy reference with git stash save and
the name.
You can also start a new
branch from a stash
by saying git stash branch
>> Nina: And,
>> Nina: Sorry, that should be,
>> Nina: Optional branch name,
not optional stash name, I believe.
I'll have to double-check that.
>> Nina: I'll
get back to that in a few minutes.
Another really useful
thing that we can do,
is grabbing a single file from the stash.
Maybe you're working on something,
you wanna check it out, you don't
wanna apply the whole stash again.
You can do with git checkout
stash name -- filename.
But note, if that you have changes to
that same file in your working area or
your staging area,
running this command will overwrite
it from the copy that's in the stash.
So, use with caution.
>> Nina: A little
bit more about advanced stashing.
I find it really useful
to clean the stash.
Sometimes when I'm working
on a long running project,
my stash is like 40 things long.
Contains things from months ago.
I'm like, what is this stuff?
I don't need it.
Some things that we can do to keep our
stash cleaner, we can use git stash pop.
And that's gonna remove the last stash and
apply those changes,
unless there's a merge conflict.
If a merge conflict
occurs when unstashing,
git is gonna keep that stash.
>> Nina: We
can also git stash drop
to remove the last stash.
So if we git stash apply,
everything looks good,
we can follow up with a git stash drop.
We can also parse a stash reference to get
stash drop, or we can remove all stashes
with git stash clear, if we know we don't
need them and we're not gonna use them.
If we want to look in our stash,
we can do that with two operations.
Git show,
given a stash reference,
will show the files
that were in the stash, and you can get
that reference with git stash list.
So, I'll keep those pretty brief
considering that most of you are already
pretty familiar with stashing.
The two advanced tips that I use most in
my daily work flow is like I said before,
keeping my untracked
files along with stash.
I don't have to mix my work
in progress changes with my
staging changes when stashing.
I also tend to use naming my stashes.
Helps me keep track what I was working on,
what I was doing when I get back to that
stash, it provides a lot of context.
There is one more type of stashing that
occasionally use it's kind of advanced so
it's not the side but I will mention it,
just like you can git add -p
to add parts of files to your stage,
you can also git stash -p.
And that will let you selectively stash
changes.
>> Speaker 2: I
noticed in your stash list on another
slide that you had some of the names of
the branches they came from in there.
>> Nina: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Do you find it hard with
stashes to keep track of that?
Cuz you don't know which
branch it came from right?
Unless you write it in
the name of the stash?
>> Nina: It should say.
>> Speaker 2: It puts it in there?
>> Nina: I'm pretty sure, yeah.